Welcome back everyone so in this section we are going to take a deep look into performance with reactor
applications performance is actually a very very common thing that every developer faces at some point
after building an application.
We spent all this time building all these features rewritten all this complicated code.
We've brought in all these great libraries we've architecture our application in a beautiful and readable
way our application is beautiful.
It's live.
It's good to go.
And then suddenly you try and navigate and you notice a wow.
This is actually really slow well.
Why is that.
Well one big thing to remember is that there's a difference between production and development.
We've been so far developing off of our local host which means that all of our files is being hosted
off of our own computers port port three thousand to be specific.
It's very efficient for us to download all of our bundles and all of our files and our javascript over
this because we're just developing locally right speed as really quick Internet connection doesn't really
matter.
But Internet connection becomes a big issue especially if we're building applications that must be hosted
live especially in countries and places that might not have the fastest internet if that's the case
when we actually look at our code in production.
This is now being hosted over some live internet connection that you own.
If you find your applications slower.
Well this is actually normal because this is the nature of how code performs in production versus in
development.
If you have really fast internet you might not notice a difference.
If anything it might actually be a little faster but that's just a thing to keep in mind when it comes
to performance and why we need to think about performance now before we actually dive into writing anything
on performance.
There is one very very key topic I want you to remember as developers going into these new careers or
if you already have a development career this one thing regarding performance you must hold dear do
not optimize your code ahead of time don't write performance code and don't fall for all of the performance
tips and tricks that people write without a reason to do so.
You only want to optimize your code once there is a problem.
You don't want to get too eager and start optimizing your code right away.
And there's actually two big pitfalls as to why this is the case.
The first is that if you start writing code that you read online that tells you makes your code a little
faster you might not have even measured if your code was slow to begin with.
You can only optimize code if you know that the code will be faster and the only way that you can tell
if your code is faster is if you measure it in the first place.
So if you don't measure or know how to measure performance don't optimize the code just yet.
It's only when your application starts slow down and you notice that there's problems then you want
to figure out how to measure it before you start looking at potential solutions as to why it's slowing
down.
So that's the first thing.
The second thing is definitely to not over optimize because when you optimize code you don't actually
know for example if optimizing the code actually makes it slower.
So you might be like Hope that makes no sense.
I thought this optimized code was supposed to make my code naturally more performed.
How can it be that if you optimize this code it actually ends up being slower.
Well you have to remember when it comes to writing code that everything has a cost.
When you write any of the code to optimize your code you're doing something new you're adding something
to your code base that reacts or the job script engine has to run in order for that optimization to
occur we'll definitely explore that more as we actually come across more use cases in both our real
code and our code in general regarding optimizations where I can show you an example of that.
But that's why we actually hark back to our original point which is that you always want to measure
your code.
You want to measure code to see if the code you wrote to optimize it actually added more time to your
total render versus reducing the time.
So that's two main points I want you to think about now going into the optimization of our performance.
There is one first thing we're going to do.
The first thing we're going to do is we are going to explore the concept of chunks.
Now the great thing about free it racked up is it gives us code splitting and chunking right out the
gate.
Now what is code splitting and chunking what I want to do is I want to open up the inspect.
Right.
I won't open up our dev tool right now instead of it being docked I've actually separate it into its
own window because there is a lot that we want to see and we want all this real estate to look at everything
that we're going to look at.
This is going to be the place that we're going to measure all of our current applications performance.
The first thing I want you to look at is this network tab inside of this network tab.
You'll see that there is a lot of things that is coming down this list.
Now before you actually look at what these things are.
There's a chance that you might not have anything loaded and it's because you open this after you loaded
your application and make sure that you're loading your Heroku application so one thing to know as well
is that when you open your Heroku application for the first time after a long time of not opening it
or if it's the first time you've opened it ever you might experience five second or ten second delay
while boots up that dynamo.
That is the server that's hosting our application.
This is just the nature of Heroku.
It has nothing actually to do with our own performance optimization and you don't really have to worry
about people that are looking at your application if you find that it's slow from Heroku because if
they know anything about Heroku which most developers do is that the free tier essentially takes some
time to boot up now.
One thing I want you to do is I want you to do a hard refresh if you're on a Mac book How refreshing
is holding command shift and then hitting ah if you're on a windows or on Linux machine you hold the
control key and then you hit the refresh button and that will do a hard refresh which means that instead
of relying on the cache for all the files that are browser has already downloaded what it's going to
do instead is it is going to read download every single asset on this page.
So we'll talk more about that right now.
What are these assets.
Well if you open up your dev tools and you go to network you'll see that when our application booted
up for the first time that we download all of these different things.
What these things are is these are the files that represent our application.
So this chunked out CSX is the CSX code that our application needs.
So one thing that remember with our CSX and JSC is that while we wrote our code in J.S. when we actually
built our code and then served it on to our server which is our Heroku backend.
And then whenever anybody actually needs to access our Web site there is actually getting CSX they're
not getting javascript.
So that's one thing to remember with CSX and James.
That's why you see this CSX chunk still even though you might be wondering why is it that we wrote stock
components.
And yet I see the CSX one CSX ingests always compiles out to CSX in the final built this chunk dodge
ass here that you see represents all of our actual libraries that we're running.
So this is react react on create react if anything that we were using to bill our front end application
is all held inside of this chunk.
This main chunk is going to be the chunk that represents our application as a whole.
So this is all the react code that we wrote.
This is all of our components.
This is all of our sagas.
This is all of the javascript that we wrote and then here you'll see these are the P and GS which is
the images that this page requires.
Now if a user comes to this page more than once.
So let's say instead of doing a hard refresh they just do a regular refresh.
Well now if we go back we'll see that it's actually relying on memory cache for a lot of these images
as well as the fonts so these fonts were originally from Google.
As you remember well now these fonts are also cached on the browser.
So this speeds up the performance really quickly for repeat visits.
You'll see that here the CSX is also in the disk cache.
So that's the great thing about the CSX too is that it will also leverage this and you'll also notice
that the J.S. files are smaller now.
So instead if we were to do a hard refresh and then go back you'll see that earlier when we had these
jazz files as 300 something bytes.
Now they're in 7 96 kilobytes which is significantly larger.
So this just goes to show you that anytime and user comes back to application it will always be faster
than when they land for the first time and they have to download everything fresh before they cache
it for repeat visits.
Now looking at these chunks these chunks is the way that we have separated our code into these bundles
of code.
One thing to remember with this main chunk though is that right now we've actually downloaded all of
the javascript code for our entire application this includes the shot page code the collections page
code the checkout page code the sign and page code.
All of that code is actually loaded on the browser right now but why is it that we need to actually
download those.
If the user has not even navigated to those pages they actually don't need to download that code.
Would it not be great if what we could do is split that code up.
Well let me show you this image imagine.
This image is our application.
So this is all of our component trees right.
This is our app.
This is maybe our sign and page.
This is our collections page.
And then imagine there were other nodes along the way that represent the other pages.
Whatever when the user lands on our application.
So they go to our home page for the first time.
They only need the code up here.
They don't actually need any of the code down here yet because they haven't gone to the page the javascript
is never run what we want to do is we want to only give them the bare minimum requirements of the code
that they need so that they don't have to download so much code right away.
This might not be important if you have a really fast computer or if you have a really fast Internet
connection but for those people running on slower devices such as mobile phones or if they're running
on a really slow internet connection.
Little bytes here and there is going to make it significantly slower and a worse experience.
So what we want to do is we want to chunk up and bundle our code which is what's called Code splitting.
What code splitting means is literally as we explained it when a user goes to the home page they're
only going to get all the code related to loading the home page.
This includes the library is the CSA whatever they need if they go to any subsequent other page let's
say they now to the collection page then they're going to download the code here for the collection
page and let's say maybe the collection page also naturally loads the collection overview.
Well we also want to give them this code that we don't want to give them the code for the actual individual
collections yet because they have not navigated to that page.
There's no reason to give them the javascript code here yet.
We only give it to them when they navigate to this page so that's one thing to remember at this point.
If they never navigate to the side and page we're never gonna give them the silent bundle.
So this is a great way to optimize our performance and the great thing is that this actually comes really
quickly out the box set up for us with create react.
We just have to modify our ReACT code a little bit in order to actually chunk up our application and
I'm gonna show you how we're gonna do that.
And the easiest way for us to test our optimization is to just make sure that when we look at this network
tab we see what it is that we're getting in terms of these chunks.
So right now we see that we only got our main chunk right which represents our application.
And then this chunk J.S. here that represents all our libraries.
So let's see if we can break these up because right now if you navigate to the shop page you'll actually
see that all we're downloading is just the images but the chunks have not changed.
We haven't dealt to any new chunks since then which is up to this point.
So if that's the case what we want to do is to chunk up our application so I'll do that in the next
lesson.